# mod-rmb-template

Copyright (C) 2017 The Open Library Foundation

This software is distributed under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0. See the file "[LICENSE](LICENSE)" for more information.

## Introduction

This is a Maven archetype used to generate an RMB-based server-side module. Install this locally if you wish to build such a module.

RAML Module Builder (or RMB) is a VertX-based toolkit that allows you to:
* synthesize API endpoints (via a Java interface) based on a RAML document; and
* synthesize POJOs based on declared JSON schema definitions.

For additional information on RMB, please refer to the [README](https://github.com/folio-org/raml-module-builder).


## Usage

First, install it locally:

```
mvn clean install
```

On success, go to the root that will host your new project folder and run the following command:

```
mvn archetype:generate                      \
  -DarchetypeGroupId=org.folio              \
  -DarchetypeArtifactId=mod-rmb-template    \
  -DarchetypeVersion=1.0-SNAPSHOT           \
  -DgroupId=org.folio                       \
  -DartifactId={project-module-name-here}
```

> NOTE: The new project will include a .gitignore file that includes paths which RMB uses to auto-generate code in. Since the Java files generated in these folders are rebuilt every single time, the paths are not under source control.

`cd` into the new project's directory.

Next, add the new project to source control. Add the `raml-util` module afterwards.

```
git init
git submodule add https://github.com/folio-org/raml ramls/raml-util
```

[raml-util](https://github.com/folio-org/raml) exposes traits shared by various RMB-based FOLIO modules.

At this point, the new module is ready for initial compilation.

`mvn clean install`

> NOTE: Once compiled, this new project will not have an actual API implementation. A Java interface file would have been generated in `src/main/java/org/folio/rest/jaxrs/resource` (in this template it would have generated `PersonResource`).

## Next steps

Follow the RMB [README](https://github.com/folio-org/raml-module-builder) to understand how it works.

Compare the files that were generated by this archetype with that explained in the RMB README and in the exemplar "mod-notes", especially `pom.xml` and `descriptors/ModuleDescriptor-template.json` files.

Replace the basic RAML and schema files with ones to suit your project. Follow the RMB [advice](https://github.com/folio-org/raml-module-builder/blob/master/README.md#step-6-design-the-raml-files) and investigate other modules.

Commence your API implementation.

